-   [DH Curation Guide](../index.html)
-   [Contents](../contents/)
    -   [Introduction to Humanities Data Curation](../intro/)
    -   [Data Representation](../representation/)
    -   [Classics & “Digital Classics”](../research-practices/classics/)
    -   [Digital Collections](../collections/)
    -   [Standards](../collections/standards/)
    -   [Policy, Practice, & Law](../legal/policy/)
    -   [Metadata (stub)](../metadata/)
    -   [Digital Preservation (stub)](../preservation/)
    -   [*Full table of contents*](../contents/)

-   [About](../about/)
-   [FAQ/DC](../faq/)
-   [Editors](../editors/)
-   [Glossary](../glossary.html)

[▲](#top)

**DH Curation Guide:**a community resource guide to data curation in the
digital humanities

-   

Metadata

### This is a stub chapter!

*All content is contributed by the community and verified by the
managing editors. We encourage you to contribute a section, paragraph,
or resource that would be useful for the humanities data curation
community! Please see our [submission
guidelines](../includes/submissions.html) if you are submitting
something for the first time.*

Introduction

This chapter will provide an overview of how metadata and metadata
standards function within the data curation process. It should include
coverage of the most relevant existing metadata schemas, metadata
syndication mechanisms, methods and challenges of integrating different
forms of metadata, metadata creation workflows, and the use and re-use
of metadata. Key questions to address include: What role does metadata
play in data curation? How much does it matter what metadata scheme we
use? What are the most commonly used metadata standards in a humanities
data curation context? What metadata standards have been designed with
humanities data curation in mind? What are effective strategies for
curating collections that use different metadata standards? How are
metadata standards changing and what are the consequences for data
curation?

Contributed resources

[“Introduction to Metadata: Pathways to Digital
Information”](http://www.getty.edu/research/publications/electronic_publications/intrometadata/index.html):
The Getty Research Institute. [more +] “Introduction to Metadata:
Pathways to Digital Information (Online Edition, Version 3.0).” Murtha
Baca, ed. 1998. Los Angeles: The J. Paul Getty Trust.

* * * * *

The Getty provides a valuable introduction to the use of metadata within
the context of a cultural institution. Chapters include best practices
and resources for metadata interoperability, rights metadata, and
metadata maintenance. —Submitted by Robin Camille Davis

Contribute

Contribute a paragraph to this section [+]

### Paragraph

Your name:\*

This is the name to which your submission will be credited

Your e-mail:\*

Your email address will not be published. We will only use it to contact
you regarding this submission.

* * * * *

Paragraph text:\*

Contribute a resource to this section [+]

### Resource

The most useful and relevant resources include best practices documents,
high-quality internal documentation, official standards or
recommendations, articles that describe or analyze best practices, and
case studies or projects whose practice is exemplary.

Your name:\*

This is the name to which your submission will be credited

Your e-mail:\*

Your email address will not be published. We will only use it to contact
you regarding this submission.

* * * * *

Title of resource:\*

\

Author(s):

e.g., W. Smith and S. Monroe; Dublin Core Metadata Initiative

Publication info:

Publication name or publisher e.g., Digital Digest 20:1 or University
Press

Date of publication:

e.g., 2009, Spring 2010, Jan. 2011

URL:\*

\
 \

* * * * *

Annotation:\*

What value do you find in this resource? Describe the resource and
explain its relevance.

E.g., "This volume of the International Journal of Digital Curation
offers an excellent overview of the field of data curation through a
combination of peer-reviewed papers and topical articles. For those new
to the field, browsing through the archives of this journal will form an
excellent introduction to both the practice and theory of curation."

Contribute a new section [+]

### Section

Your name:\*

This is the name to which your submission will be credited

Your e-mail:\*

Your email address will not be published. We will only use it to contact
you regarding this submission.

* * * * *

Section title:\*

\
 \

Section text:\*

Add at least one resource to support your section or provide context to
readers

### Resource

Title of resource:\*

\

Author(s):

e.g., W. Smith and S. Monroe; Dublin Core Metadata Initiative

Publication info:

Publication name or publisher e.g., Digital Digest 20:1 or University
Press

Date of publication:

e.g., 2009, Spring 2010, Jan. 2011

URL:\*

\
 \

Annotation:\*

What value do you find in this resource? Describe the resource and
explain its relevance.

E.g., "This volume of the International Journal of Digital Curation
offers an excellent overview of the field of data curation through a
combination of peer-reviewed papers and topical articles. For those new
to the field, browsing through the archives of this journal will form an
excellent introduction to both the practice and theory of curation."

Add more resources [+]

* * * * *

Title:\*

\

Author(s):

Publication:

Date:

URL:\*

\
 \

Annotation:\*

* * * * *

Title:\*

\

Author(s):

Publication:

Date:

URL:\*

\
 \

Annotation:\*

* * * * *

Title:\*

\

Author(s):

Publication:

Date:

URL:\*

\
 \

Annotation:\*

* * * * *

Title:\*

\

Author(s):

Publication:

Date:

URL:\*

\
 \

Annotation:\*

* * * * *

Maximum 5 resources.

\

[![Institute of Museum and Library
Services](../images/imls-logo.gif)](http://www.imls.gov/) [![Center for
Informatics Research in Science and
Scholarship](../images/cirss-logo-sm.gif)](http://cirss.lis.illinois.edu)
[![Graduate School of Library and Information
Science](../images/gslis36.gif)](http://lis.illinois.edu) [![University
of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign](../images/black26.gif)](http://illinois.edu)
[![Creative Commons
License](http://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-nc-nd/3.0/80x15.png)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/)
This work is licensed under a [Creative Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported
License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/). \
 [How to cite »](../about/#howtocite)

[DH Curation Guide home](../index.html) \
 [About this site](../about/) [FAQ about data curation](../faq/)
[Contributing editors](../editors/) [Glossary](../glossary.html)
[Sitemap](../sitemap.html) \
 \

Page published 2011-10-28 | Page updated 2011-11-01

[[back to top]](#top)

[![Share on
Twitter](../images/twitter.gif "Share on Twitter")](https://twitter.com/share)
[![Save to
Delicious](../images/del.gif "Save to Delicious")](http://www.delicious.com/save)

f882e76c3c89464ab89523d2126f7350
