-   [DH Curation Guide](../index.html)
-   [Contents](../contents/)
    -   [Introduction to Humanities Data Curation](../intro/)
    -   [Data Representation](../representation/)
    -   [Classics & “Digital Classics”](../research-practices/classics/)
    -   [Digital Collections](../collections/)
    -   [Standards](../collections/standards/)
    -   [Policy, Practice, & Law](../legal/policy/)
    -   [Metadata (stub)](../metadata/)
    -   [Digital Preservation (stub)](../preservation/)
    -   [*Full table of contents*](../contents/)

-   [About](../about/)
-   [FAQ/DC](../faq/)
-   [Editors](../editors/)
-   [Glossary](../glossary.html)

[▲](#top)

**DH Curation Guide:**a community resource guide to data curation in the
digital humanities

-   

Digital Preservation

### This is a stub chapter!

*All content is contributed by the community and verified by the
managing editors. We encourage you to contribute a section, paragraph,
or resource that would be useful for the humanities data curation
community! Please see our [submission
guidelines](../includes/submissions.html) if you are contributing
something for the first time.*

Introduction

This chapter addresses digital preservation, with specific emphasis on
preservation planning and metadata, and on preservation activities such
as migration and emulation. It should also cover the significant
standards and conceptual models in current use (such as the OAIS model)
and provide a sense of what are the current debates and active research
in this domain.

Contributed resources

[Meeting the challenges of digital preservation: The OAIS reference
model](http://www.getty.edu/research/publications/electronic_publications/intrometadata/index.html):
Brian Lavoie, OCLC. [more +] Lavoie, Brian. “Meeting the challenges of
digital preservation: The OAIS reference model.” OCLC Newsletter, No.
243:26-30. Jan/Feb 2000.

* * * * *

The OAIS (Open Archival Information System) model, developed by space
data systems researchers, is now an ISO standard and is well adopted by
digital preservationists. It is a functional model that describes
archival preservation of information in a distributed environment.
Though written before OAIS became widely accepted, Lavoie's article is a
concise introduction to the OAIS environment, with specific reference to
designated communities. —Submitted by Robin Camille Davis

Contribute

Contribute a paragraph to this section [+]

### Paragraph

Your name:\*

This is the name to which your submission will be credited

Your e-mail:\*

Your email address will not be published. We will only use it to contact
you regarding this submission.

* * * * *

Paragraph text:\*

Contribute a resource to this section [+]

### Resource

The most useful and relevant resources include best practices documents,
high-quality internal documentation, official standards or
recommendations, articles that describe or analyze best practices, and
case studies or projects whose practice is exemplary.

Your name:\*

This is the name to which your submission will be credited

Your e-mail:\*

Your email address will not be published. We will only use it to contact
you regarding this submission.

* * * * *

Title of resource:\*

\

Author(s):

e.g., W. Smith and S. Monroe; Dublin Core Metadata Initiative

Publication info:

Publication name or publisher e.g., Digital Digest 20:1 or University
Press

Date of publication:

e.g., 2009, Spring 2010, Jan. 2011

URL:\*

\
 \

* * * * *

Annotation:\*

What value do you find in this resource? Describe the resource and
explain its relevance.

E.g., "This volume of the International Journal of Digital Curation
offers an excellent overview of the field of data curation through a
combination of peer-reviewed papers and topical articles. For those new
to the field, browsing through the archives of this journal will form an
excellent introduction to both the practice and theory of curation."

Contribute a new section [+]

### Section

Your name:\*

This is the name to which your submission will be credited

Your e-mail:\*

Your email address will not be published. We will only use it to contact
you regarding this submission.

* * * * *

Section title:\*

\
 \

Section text:\*

Add at least one resource to support your section or provide context to
readers

### Resource

Title of resource:\*

\

Author(s):

e.g., W. Smith and S. Monroe; Dublin Core Metadata Initiative

Publication info:

Publication name or publisher e.g., Digital Digest 20:1 or University
Press

Date of publication:

e.g., 2009, Spring 2010, Jan. 2011

URL:\*

\
 \

Annotation:\*

What value do you find in this resource? Describe the resource and
explain its relevance.

E.g., "This volume of the International Journal of Digital Curation
offers an excellent overview of the field of data curation through a
combination of peer-reviewed papers and topical articles. For those new
to the field, browsing through the archives of this journal will form an
excellent introduction to both the practice and theory of curation."

Add more resources [+]

* * * * *

Title:\*

\

Author(s):

Publication:

Date:

URL:\*

\
 \

Annotation:\*

* * * * *

Title:\*

\

Author(s):

Publication:

Date:

URL:\*

\
 \

Annotation:\*

* * * * *

Title:\*

\

Author(s):

Publication:

Date:

URL:\*

\
 \

Annotation:\*

* * * * *

Title:\*

\

Author(s):

Publication:

Date:

URL:\*

\
 \

Annotation:\*

* * * * *

Maximum 5 resources.

\

[![Institute of Museum and Library
Services](../images/imls-logo.gif)](http://www.imls.gov/) [![Center for
Informatics Research in Science and
Scholarship](../images/cirss-logo-sm.gif)](http://cirss.lis.illinois.edu)
[![Graduate School of Library and Information
Science](../images/gslis36.gif)](http://lis.illinois.edu) [![University
of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign](../images/black26.gif)](http://illinois.edu)
[![Creative Commons
License](http://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-nc-nd/3.0/80x15.png)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/)
This work is licensed under a [Creative Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported
License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/). \
 [How to cite »](../about/#howtocite)

[DH Curation Guide home](../index.html) \
 [About this site](../about/) [FAQ about data curation](../faq/)
[Contributing editors](../editors/) [Glossary](../glossary.html)
[Sitemap](../sitemap.html) \
 \

Page published 2011-10-28 | Page updated 2012-02-22

[[back to top]](#top)

[![Share on
Twitter](../images/twitter.gif "Share on Twitter")](https://twitter.com/share)
[![Save to
Delicious](../images/del.gif "Save to Delicious")](http://www.delicious.com/save)

f882e76c3c89464ab89523d2126f7350
