-   [DH Curation Guide](../../index.html)
-   [Contents](../../contents/)
    -   [Introduction to Humanities Data Curation](../../intro/)
    -   [Data Representation](../../representation/)
    -   [Classics & “Digital
        Classics”](../../research-practices/classics/)
    -   [Digital Collections](../../collections/)
    -   [Standards](../../collections/standards/)
    -   [Policy, Practice, & Law](../../legal/policy/)
    -   [Metadata (stub)](../../metadata/)
    -   [Digital Preservation (stub)](../../preservation/)
    -   [*Full table of contents*](../../contents/)

-   [About](../../about/)
-   [FAQ/DC](../../faq/)
-   [Editors](../../editors/)
-   [Glossary](../../glossary.html)

[▲](#top)

[**DH Curation Guide**](../../index.html)

Standards [Deborah Anderson, University of California,
Berkeley](../editors/#deborahanderson "Contributor page")

[![Save to
Delicious](../../images/del-20.gif "Save to Delicious")](https://www.delicious.com/save)

[Tweet](https://twitter.com/share)

[![image](../../images/pdf.png "Download as PDF") Download PDF](pdf.php)

### Article contents [±]

-   Introduction
-   Resources: Introduction to Standards
-   General article comments

[§ 1](#standards)

[Introduction](#standards)

-   [](#) Add section comment

For digital humanities data, a standard has been defined as “codified
rules and guidelines for the creation, description and management of
digital resources” (Gill and Miller, 2002). Standards can be classified
as a de jure standard, which may be mandated by law (or may be used to
designate a formal standard), or de facto standards, such as the Text
Encoding Initiative, which enjoys widespread use and acceptance.

[¶ 1](#p01 "Permalink")

-   [](#) Add paragraph comment

There are a number of introductions to standards that provide a
background on standards and how to participate. Guides are frequently
available from national and international standards organizations. In
terms of data curation, the basic underlying theme is that standards
encourage interoperability, although most guides are written from the
viewpoint of business, and not humanities projects.

[¶ 2](#p02 "Permalink")

-   [](#) Add paragraph comment

Those standards of interest to digital curation projects are largely in
information and communication technology (ICT). Today, ICT standards are
developed by formal Standards Developing Organizations (SDOs), such as
the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), as well as
national and regional standards organizations.

[¶ 3](#p03 "Permalink")

-   [](#) Add paragraph comment

Finding the relevant standards for humanities data curation may be
difficult, because the number of ICT standards is growing and can be
fragmented across industry, consortia, academic groups, and standards
organizations. Most standards organizations have search portals (such as
those provided by ISO, ANSI, and NISO), but a more effective retrieval
method might be to locate the list of standards maintained by a relevant
community, such as the list for librarians and archivists as maintained
by Library of Congress (or the portal developed for archivists,
maintained by Society of American Archivists).

[¶ 4](#p04 "Permalink")

-   [](#) Add paragraph comment

There many reasons for abiding by such standards for data curation.
Standards make data interchange possible across different programs,
application software, or computer systems, especially if the standard
has been widely adopted by industry and the academy. Standards also help
preserve data for the long-term because the data does not follow not an
ad hoc system, which may not be recoverable in the future. As a standard
matures through time and eventually become outdated, migration to the
newer standard is easier when a project initially followed a standard.

[[back to top]](#top)

[¶ 5](#p05 "Permalink")

-   [](#) Add paragraph comment

[Resources: Introduction to Standards](#introduction_standards) Collapse
annotations

[ANSI. StandardsLearn.org](http://www.standardslearn.org/) : American
National Standards Institute.

This website offers three free short e-learning courses with very basic
information on standards and tales from the history of standardization,
as described from the American viewpoint and stressing the value in
terms of global competitiveness in business. ANSI is the national
standards body that accredits other standards organizations in the U.S.
[full citation ±] American National Standards Institute.
StandardsLearn.org.

[¶ 6](#r100 "Permalink")

[ANSI. The Handbook of Standardization: A Guide to Understanding
Standards Development
Today](http://www.astm.org/NEWS/handbook02/images/Handbook02.pdf) :
American National Standards Institute.

 This 15-page booklet is freely available and provides an overview of
standards development via the American perspective, as provided by the
American National Standards Institute [full citation ±] American
National Standards Institute. *The Handbook of Standardization: A Guide
to Understanding Standards Development Today.*

[¶ 7](#r101 "Permalink")

[Re-inventing the Wheel? Standards, Interoperability and Digital
Cultural Content](http://www.dlib.org/dlib/january02/gill/01gill.html )
: Gill, Tony, and Paul Miller.

This brief article, though dated, articulates the reasons for the use of
standards on projects in the humanities, and identifies some of the
problems – such as, too many standards to choose from, thus creating
problems in interoperability. [full citation ±] Gill, Tony, and Paul
Miller. “Re-inventing the Wheel? Standards, Interoperability and Digital
Cultural Content.” *D-Lib Magazine.*, January 2002, vol 8, no. 1.

[¶ 8](#r102 "Permalink")

[The Tao of IETF: A Novice’s Guide to the Internet Engineering Task
Force](http://www.ietf.org/tao.html) : Hoffman, Paul.

A “gentle” guide to the standards group Internet Engineering Task Force,
specifically geared for newbies. IETF is broadly defined as a group
whose mandate is to produce technical documents that make the Internet
work better. While there are several areas of current work, a few may be
applicable to those in data curation, including a Working Group on IRIs,
Internationalized Resource Identifiers, which are used to identify
resources. This guide discusses the history of IETF, its structure, the
standards process, and useful tidbits, such as how Working Groups reach
consensus and the dress code at meetings. The guide mentions the value
to participation for computer science students and faculty, but no
reference is made to those working in the humanities. It serves as a
background document on various facets of standardization, and could act
as a useful template for guides to standards development in other
organizations. Other guides to IETF standardization are available on the
IETF website. [full citation ±] Hoffman, Paul. “The Tao of IETF: A
Novice’s Guide to the Internet Engineering Task Force:
draft-hoffman-tao4677bis-13.” Internet-Draft. October 2011.

[¶ 9](#r103 "Permalink")

[My ISO Job: Guidance for delegates and
experts](http://www.iso.org/iso/my_iso_job.pdf ) : International
Organization for Standardization.

This introductory level booklet is a guide for delegates to the
International Organization for Standardization (ISO), so it is geared
specifically to those participating in ISO-level standards work. For
those who may be first-time ISO participants, the booklet usefully
summarizes the different stages of its projects, which can be confusing
for newcomers, and also explains the business (or “market”) aspect of
standards development, which is important to recognize, even for those
coming from academia or libraries. [full citation ±] International
Organization for Standardization. *My ISO Job: Guidance for delegates
and experts.* Geneva: ISO, 2008.

[¶ 10](#r104 "Permalink")

[Joining in: Participating in International
Standardization.](http://www.iso.org/iso/joining_in_2007.pdf ) :
Updegrove, Andrew.

This booklet expands beyond the information in the booklet [My ISO
Job](http://www.iso.org/iso/my_iso_job.pdf ), by providing additional
details on ISO-level standards work for its delegates. It would be
primarily of interest for those attending ISO meetings. [full citation
±] Updegrove, Andrew. *Joining in: Participating in International
Standardization.* Geneva: ISO, 2007.

[¶ 11](#r105 "Permalink")

[The Essential Guide to
Standards](http://www.consortiuminfo.org/essentialguide/) : Updegrove,
Andrew.

 This freely available handbook on standards is primarily written from a
business perspective. Chapter 2, “Participating in Standards Setting
Organizations: Value Propositions, Roles And Strategies,” contains only
a short section on universities (3.2.2.). A humanities project might,
for example, use for its character encoding Unicode (an international
standard), provide metadata in the header according to the TEI P5
guidelines (a de facto standard), and use a Cascading Style Sheet
(developed by World Wide Web Consortium, a standards organization).
[full citation ±] Updegrove, Andrew. *The Essential Guide to Standards.*
ConsortiumInfo.org, 2007.

[¶ 12](#r106 "Permalink")

[The Unicode Standard](http://unicode.org/) : Tne Unicode Consortium.

The Unicode Standard is an international character encoding standard.
For data curation, relying on Unicode as the basis for the letters and
symbols used in text will guarantee interoperability, because this
standard is widely adopted in computers and software and in various
projects. Unicode contains the same characters as ISO/IEC 10646, which
is its ISO counterpart. The “unicode.org” website is the most readily
accessible way to view the standard today. Properly speaking, The
Unicode Standard also includes additional specifications beyond
character codepoints, just as line-breaking information. [full citation
±] Tne Unicode Consortium. The Unicode Standard.

[¶ 13](#r107 "Permalink")

[Preservation](http://www.digitalhumanities.org/companion/) : Smith,
Abby.

 This article is a very useful resource focusing on the value of
standards for humanities data curation. Several funding agencies,
including NEH and NSF, are now requiring a data management plan, which
includes documentation of the data, metadata format, and content
standards being used. [full citation ±] Smith, Abby. “Preservation.” *A
Companion to Digital Humanities.* ed. Susan Schreibman, Ray Siemens,
John Unsworth. Oxford: Blackwell, 2004.

[¶ 14](#r108 "Permalink")

[International Organization for Standardization
(ISO)](http://www.iso.org/iso/home.html) : International Organization
for Standardization.

ISO is the largest standards body today. The work on information
technology, which touches data curation, is carried on in by its Joint
Technical Committee, JTC1. JTC1 is ISO’s main organ for standards
development in information technology. Under JTC1 are various Working
Groups (WG), Special Working Groups (SWG), and Subcommittees (SC), whose
work covers topics relevant to humanities data curation including coded
character sets, digitally recorded media for information interchange and
storage, document description and processing languages, computer
graphics, image processing. [full citation ±] International Organization
for Standardization. ISO - International Organization for
Standardization.

Add resource

### Add a resource

We encourage you to contribute a resource that would be useful for the
humanities data curation community! The most helpful and relevant
resources include best practices documents, high-quality internal
documentation, official standards or recommendations, articles that
describe or analyze best practices, and case studies or projects whose
practice is exemplary. **All content is verified by the managing
editors. Please see our [submission guidelines](../../submissions/) if
you are submitting something for the first time.**

Your name:\*

This is the name to which your submission will be credited

Your e-mail:\*

Your email address will not be published. We will only use it to contact
you regarding this submission.

Your website:

Opt. Your name can be linked to a bio page, Twitter account, or other
website.

* * * * *

Add to resource group:

Title of resource:\*

\

Author(s):\*

e.g., W. Smith and S. Monroe; Dublin Core Metadata Initiative

Publication info:

Publication name or publisher e.g., Digital Digest 20:1 or University
Press

Date of publication:

e.g., 2009, Spring 2010, Jan. 2011

URL:

\
 \

Annotation:\*

What value do you find in this resource? Describe the resource and
explain its relevance.

E.g., "This volume of the International Journal of Digital Curation
offers an excellent overview of the field of data curation through a
combination of peer-reviewed papers and topical articles. For those new
to the field, browsing through the archives of this journal will form an
excellent introduction to both the practice and theory of curation." \
 Add more resources [+]

* * * * *

Title:\*

\

Author(s):\*

Publication:

Date:

URL:

\
 \

Annotation:\*

* * * * *

Title:\*

\

Author(s):\*

Publication:

Date:

URL:

\
 \

Annotation:\*

* * * * *

Title:\*

\

Author(s):\*

Publication:

Date:

URL:

\
 \

Annotation:\*

* * * * *

Title:\*

\

Author(s):\*

Publication:

Date:

URL:

\
 \

Annotation:\*

* * * * *

After submission, the editors will respond to you by email. \
 \
 \
 \

[[back to top]](#top)

[¶ 15](#r109 "Permalink")

* * * * *

[General article comments](#allArticleComments)

\
 \

-   [](#) Add comment

**Welcome to the discussion!** \
 [Sign in](#) with Google, Twitter, Yahoo!, or Facebook.

\

Read our [privacy policy »](../privacy/)

Sign out »

Comment: \
 \

[![Institute of Museum and Library
Services](../../images/imls-logo.gif)](http://www.imls.gov/) [![Center
for Informatics Research in Science and
Scholarship](../../images/cirss-logo-sm.gif)](http://cirss.lis.illinois.edu)
[![Graduate School of Library and Information
Science](../../images/gslis36.gif)](http://lis.illinois.edu)
[![University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign](../../images/black26.gif)](http://illinois.edu)
[![Creative Commons
License](http://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-nc-nd/3.0/80x15.png)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/)

This work is licensed under a [Creative Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported
License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/). \
 **How to cite:**Deborah Anderson. "Standards", *DH Curation Guide: a
community resource guide to data curation in the digital humanities*,

.

[DH Curation Guide home](../../index.html) \
 [About this site](../../about/) [Contents](../../contents/) [FAQ about
data curation](../../faq/) [Contributing editors](../../editors/)
[Glossary](../../glossary.html) [Privacy](../../privacy/) [Contact
us](../../about#contact) [Sitemap](../../sitemap.html) \
 \

Page updated 2012-03-15

[[back to top]](#top)

a0dc4d73689b43fdbaaae834a5b1512e
